>> Steve Kinney: What I'm gonna have you
do is if we look in our little skate park,
there's other buttons that
we might choose to make.
A primary button, which we just made,
a secondary button.
And we'll look how to make one button
where the prop handles it, but
that's componenty, reacty stuff.
I'll show you how to do it.
But right now we're just kind
of focusing on the markup.
So we'll have three buttons.
Grab either the secondary button or
the danger button or both,
and try your hand at it.
And then we'll do one of them together
based on audience appeal when we get back.
All right, so our mission was to
grab either the danger button or
the secondary button and take a run at it.
I am not going to do both because at
some point you'll have watched me do
the same thing three times.
So I'm going to grab the secondary
button because it allows me
to make a segue at some point.
But I need my sidebar back.
There we go.
And we'll go ahead.
I'm going to grab the secondary button,
and
we'll make that small and make that big.
So this one in the first example, I kind
of deleted the props and stuff like that.
But let's do it in this one so we can see
both and so we can just grab class name.
No, class does not react.
Okay, so again, secondary button,
that more subtle button.
We could either say
that the background is.
Again, it's all our choice and
what we want to do.
So I could even say something
like blue 100 if I wanted.
Or we can just leave the background
white at this point.
By default, it's technically transparent,
so it's up to you.
So if I wanted to just say bg-white,
let's do that one,
because not all colors have
to have those numbers.
Those are just what
the variables are called.
The variable for BG Blue 600 that
we had in the last one was because
there's a css variable
called color blue 600.
There's not.
You know, there are grays, but
theoretically they're, you know, white is
just the standard hex code in this case,
and there's not different shades of it.
Those are called gray.
And so
we've got this kind of white background.
We can give it kind of like
the same stuff we saw before.
We'll give it like PX of 3.
I forgot what we did, py 1.5 feels right.
Now the issue, obviously,
as you can see here, is like,
it's somewhat like suspicious where
the borders of the button are.
Before we had a solid color background.
Now we've got the secondary
button that's white.
It's on a very light background.
We'll deal with that in a second.
We will just do the other classes
that we saw with the primary button.
So we'll give it some rounding
of the edges that we cannot see.
And we can give that small
shadow you can subtly.
Now it's slowly coming to life here with
a little bit of pop from the shadow,
which is obviously a little more
obvious than we had on the blue one.
But then we get to a conundrum,
which is maybe we want to
give this a border, right?
This is not necessarily a tailwind thing.
This is just a border thing,
which is we can say border.
If you just say border,
you will get, I think, like,
you can actually see if you hover over it,
you will get a one pixel border.
Great.
And you can even say stuff like
anytime you load in a given
color as the CSS variable.
So we had a CSS variable called
dash dash color dash white.
We had another one called dash dash color
dash blue dash 600, they are available.
So BG White will give you
a white background border.
White will give you a white border text.
White will give you white text.
It takes that one CSS variable and
it creates all the utility
classes you could ever want.
So I could say something like border.
I could say border.
I like slate instead of gray,
but gray is an option too.
Slate is just slightly bluer.
Cool, cool, cool.
And just to kind of show you,
I can make it red if I wanted to.
>> Steve Kinney: I'll make it slate.
And so we've got that border there.
We've got a nice little shadow.
In this case, we can.
What else?
Could we do this better?
We should give it like a hover state,
right?
We'll say hover:bg-slate,
I don't know, 100 feels right.
So I can hover over it.
So we've got a button.
We do have a little bit of
a problem with this button that is
not necessarily a tailwind thing and
not super obvious,
but it's something worth talking about,
which is borders take up space, right?
So let's say hypothetically,
this button did not have a border and
we want to say only have
the border on hover, right?
You can see that the button kind of moves,
which kind of looks cool,
except I don't want it to happen
because borders take up space.
And so especially, like, if we made
the border a little bit more extreme so
if we said we're going to give
it a border of like eight,
which is a lot of border for
a button, but it makes my point.
You can see the button itself
moves dramatically, right?
And considering that our primary
button did not have a border,
means that one of these buttons would
have been bigger than the other if.
No, I want that hover in place
if we use a border everywhere.
Luckily, it's not necessarily a tailwind
problem because it's just putting a border
on there.
It is, however, a fact of life with css.
And we'll kind of look at this in
a second that it does take up space.
Let's go back to a regular
border in this case.
The other option is just
do not use a border.
So we have another option
here called outline.
Outline.
And we'll say that outline is slate,
>> Steve Kinney: 600.
You can kind of see it
moved a little bit here.
And that even if I had an outline of 8,
watch very closely as I hit save.
The button itself doesn't move.
So an outline is effectively a border
that does not take up space.
This is good for interactive elements,
where maybe I only want to put something
on there, or when they hover over it,
or if it's focused or
something along those lines.
I don't want the whole layout
of my page shifting, right.
We'll look at this more in a second.
But basically, my kind of rule is borders
are cool for structural things like cards
and sections and divs and stuff like that,
where the border is part of the layout.
But if it's something like an input
element or something interactive,
you probably want an outline.
And they have a third sibling called ring,
which we will talk about
momentarily as well.
So we'll give this one outline of 2,
which is outline, which is outline of 1.
So this is actually no bigger than the
primary button that has no sort of border
whatsoever.
So we've got this button here, too.
Yeah, we have more to do with this button.
There's definitely more to do to it, but
I think we can change topics for a moment
and then we'll come revisit our button and
learn some things and do some more.